---
layout: post
title:  K and R - The C Answer Book
date: 2023-09-08 15:10:00
description: The K and R book is awesome - I've reread it to teach a course!
tags: book-review teaching-materials
categories: book-reviews
thumbnail: assets/img/kandr.jpg
---
# The C Programming Language
## by Kernighan and Ritchie
### Reviewed September 2023


<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        This book:
        <ul>
            <li>Stands the test of time</li>
            <li>Respects the reader</li>
            <li>while still being approachable</li>
            <li>Has examples, examples, and more examples</li>
        </ul>

        Expected read-time is <strong>10-20 hours</strong> -- it really depends on your experience and comfort with C.
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/kandr.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>

### Disclaimer
**Please remember this book was published in 1988!**

It's absolutely fabulous as an intro. Some of the advanced topics are out of date, however, and some of the practices are outdated.

An example is *putting all variable declarations at the top of a file* - this is now an anti-pattern as it ineffectively uses memory.
It had a place in the past, but no longer.
Another example is *declaring variables in if/else-if statements* - this is also not recommended, as it causes unexpected side-effects and can be hard to read.
A better method is to define variables as-needed around if/else-if statements and use the variables.
Exceptions, of course, are made for loop-contained variables, especially indices and similar in for/while loops. 
In general though, *don't have your code have side-effects*!

The K&R was written by the people who designed and wrote C. These people are legends! And their insight into their language is amazing.
So do read the book! But remember - it's not the end-all.

That said, here's a short reading guide:

### Chapters 1, 2, 3, and 4
are your basics of C. Syntax, types, loops, functions, and basic compilation - you'll do a hello-world here, for example.

#### Pitfall topics:

- Variables and scope are easy mess up in C, and the resulting errors can be a _hassle_ to identify.

- Keep in mind your use of static -- and how it differs if it's *inside* a block vs applied to a declaration or global!

- Dig around in the compilation process -- take a look at the results of preprocessing (gcc -E), at the object dump from your assembling (gcc -c, then objdump -d file.o), and at the object dump from your linked executable.

### Chapter 5
is pointers! Grab your towel and Don't Panic. This is a well-paced walkthrough, give it a slow and purposeful read.

#### Pitfall topics:
- are just what you'd expect -- pointers are easy to mess up and hard to debug.

- Remember -- &variable gives you the address, \*variable gives you the value at a pointer, and \* in a declaration indicates a pointer.

- C is pass-by-value! So everything is pointers - or pointers-to-pointers, even.

- Array notation and pointer notation are mostly interchangeable -- and as long as the compiler is made aware of the type the pointer references, adding to a pointer will move sizeof() !

### Chapter 6
is structures - in the age of object-oriented-everything, structs should be pretty conceptually comfy.

#### Pitfall topics:
- Self-referential structs require careful malloc/free -- the compiler can't be expected to know how large an object is when it contains itself, after all!

### Chapter 7 and 8
cover I/O and UNIX system interfacing. These chapters are very *useful* but often outdated -- not usually incorrect, but there are many modern developments that ease the more tricky topics in these chapters. That said, *do* read them, as they cover the extreme-basics. The examples in chapter 8 are especially informative. Set aside time to walk through these - maybe even try running them yourself, they're that decent.

### Remaining contents
are appendices including libraries and references manuals. I find these chapters are a good skim - but I have trouble remembering these hyper-detailed tidbits out of context/use. I did enjoy skimming, though - some of the referenced materials are weird! Especially some of the more esotheric operators.

Additionally, the Standard Library appendix does have some useful tables for printf/scanf formatting options. These are always nice to have handy to flip open.
